[DOC] Character filter - Index & HTML Strip (#8206)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _analyzers/character-filters/index.md

---
layout: default

> title: Character Filters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Character filters
```

nav_order: 90
has_children: true
has_toc: false
---

# Character filters

> Character filters process the text before tokenization, modifying, or cleaning the input to prepare it for further analysis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Character filters process text before tokenization to prepare it for further analysis.
```

> Unlike token filters, which operate on tokens (words or terms), character filters work on the raw input text before tokenization. They are especially useful for cleaning or transforming structured text with unwanted characters, such as HTML tags or special symbols. Character filters help strip or replace these elements so that text is properly formatted for analysis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike token filters, which operate on tokens (words or terms), character filters process the raw input text before tokenization. They are especially useful for cleaning or transforming structured text containing unwanted characters, such as HTML tags or special symbols. Character filters help to strip or replace these elements so that text is properly formatted for analysis.
```

Use cases for character filters include:

> - **HTML stripping:** Removes HTML tags from content so that only the plain text is indexed. See [HTML stripping]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/html-character-filter/) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **HTML stripping:** Removes HTML tags from content so that only the plain text is indexed.
```

> - **Pattern replacement:** Replaces or removes unwanted characters or patterns in text, for example, converting hyphens to spaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Pattern replacement:** Replaces or removes unwanted characters or patterns in text, for example, to convert hyphens to spaces.
```

> - **Custom mappings:** Substitutes specific characters or sequences with other values, for example, converting currency symbols into their textual equivalents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Custom mappings:** Substitutes specific characters or sequences with other values, for example, to convert currency symbols into their textual equivalents.
```
